Accounts are a fundamental component of the Ethereum platform.
These accounts represent an identity,
used to make transactions by people,
mining nodes or contracts.
In this video, we'll look at the basics of these different account types.
We'll also define each of the variables,
that are used to determine the account state.
In Ethereum, there are two types of accounts.
Externally owned accounts, known as EOA's,
and contract accounts known as CA's.
Individuals holding a private key manage externally owned accounts.
As a user on the Ethereum network,
this is the type of account you would earn.
There are few important fields associated with it.
First, an EOA holds the account balance shown in Ether.
It also includes a transaction count.
This count is the number of transactions that originated from the account.
An EOA, can do a few things.
It can send transactions on the Ethereum network,
call a smart contract,
and transfer value from its wallet to another account.
EOA's are slightly different than contract accounts.
Contract accounts, or CA's,
are accounts controlled by the code within a smart contract.
On top of the account balance and transaction count,
it also holds the smart contract code.
In this case, the transaction count means something different than with EOA's.
In CA's it refers to the number of times
this contract has deployed other smart contracts.
Like an EOA, a CA can also transfer value and initiate another smart contract.
When receiving transactions, a CA can execute associated smart contracts,
and in some cases, manipulate storage.
These accounts can be created by another CA or an EOA.
As we mentioned earlier,
there are a few fields that determine the state of these accounts.
These fields include the nonce, balance,
storage hash, code hash,
account storage and EVM code.
Let's look at each of these fields in a little more detail.
First the nonce.
The nonce refers to the number of transactions on the account.
As we saw, this is slightly different depending on if it's an EOA or a CA.
In an EOA, this is the number of transactions sent from the accounts address.
In a CA, it's the number of contracts created by the account.
The account balance is the total value of Ether available on the account.
The balance is shown in Wei.
A Wei is a smaller denomination of Ether.
Like how penny is a smaller denomination of a dollar.
One Ether, is equal to 10 to the 18th Wei.
The storage hash, is the root node of the Patricia tree.
The Patricia tree is the data structure that Ethereum uses.
This tree stores the hash containing the contents of the account.
Next, the code hash.
Is the hash of the code within the smart contract.
This code executes every time a call is made to the contract.
While other fields can be changed,
this hash cannot change.
This is the reason that smart contract code cannot change after it's deployed.
In E0A's, there's no code.
So, the code hash field is an empty string.
That wraps up this overview of externally owned accounts,
contract accounts, and each of their state variables.
To summarize, EOA's are tied to private keys,
don't hold code, maintain a balance of Ether, and consent transactions.
CA's, have code, a balance of Ether and can
execute this code when triggered by transactions or messages.
Coming up, we'll look at the types of transactions and messages that exist.
This will help us better understand,
how transactions take place between EOA's and CA's.